Soup Chef
============

This is a Xamarin port of Apple's [Soup Chef](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sirikit/accelerating_app_interactions_with_shortcuts?language=objc)
sample. It demonstrates how to create an app that makes use of Siri 
Shortcuts, introduced in iOS 12.

The application provides a way to order soup from a fictitious soup
restaurant, view your order history, and assign voice shortcuts to
orders. These voice shortcuts can then be invoked with Siri, making it
possible to order soup without even opening the app.

Usage
-------

To use the app, set up an order and assign it a voice shortcut:

- Open the app.
- Click the **+** button in the upper-right, and create a new soup order. 
- After creating the order, it will appear on the **Order History** screen 
in the app. Select the order, then tap **Add to Siri** on the bottom of the 
screen. 
- Record a phrase to use to make the same order again in the future with 
Siri. For example, for an order that contains two bowls of chowder with 
cheese, you might specify, "Order two bowls of chowder with cheese."

Then, order soup with Siri:

- Minimize or close the **Soup Chef** app.
- Invoke Siri in whatever way you prefer, and issue the voice command you
defined above. For example, "Hey Siri, order two bowls of chowder with 
cheese." Siri will interact with you to create and execute the order.

Repository overview
-------

This repository contains the following folders:

1. **OrderSoupIntentCodeGen/**

    This folder contains an Xcode project that includes the
    **Intents.intentdefinition** file that defines the custom intent
    file used by the Soup Chef app. This file is the basis for custom
    interactions with Siri, and Xcode generates some code based on its
    contents (which can be edited with Xcode). The Xamarin.iOS
    **SoupChef** project relies on a C# binding to this generated code.

2. **OrderSoupIntentStaticLib/**

    This folder contains an Xcode project used to create a static library
    from the code generated by the **OrderSoupIntentCodeGen** project.
    It also contains a **Makefile** to generate C# bindings definitions
    (**ApiDefinitions.cs** and **StructsAndEnums.cs** files) for this
    static library, based on the .h and .m files created by Xcode.

3. **OrderSoupIntentBinding/**

    This project takes the C# bindings definitions and static library created
    by the **OrderSoupIntentStaticLib** project and uses them to create
    an assembly for use in a Xamarin.iOS application. There's no reason
    to open this project directly, as it is included in the **SoupChef**
    solution.

4. **SoupChefIntents/**

    The Soup Chef Intents Extension, which performs the background work
    necessary to order soup when requested by Siri.

5. **SoupChefIntentsUI/**

    The Soup Chef Intents UI Extension, which contains the custom UI used
    to interact with Siri when ordering soup.

6. **SoupKit/**

    Shared code

7. **SoupChef/**

    The Xamarin.iOS Soup Chef app. This solution contains references to
    these other projects:

    - **OrderSoupIntentBinding**
    - **SoupChefIntents**
    - **SoupChefIntentsUI**
    - **SoupKit**

Building the static library and C# bindings definitions
-------

The **SoupChef** app relies on the **OrderSoupIntentBinding** project,
which in turn relies on the static library produced by
**OrderSoupIntentStaticLib** and its associated C# bindings definitions.

Follow these instructions to make sure that the static library and C#
bindings definitions build as expected:

- [Install Objective Sharpie](https://docs.microsoft.com/xamarin/cross-platform/macios/binding/objective-sharpie/get-started?context=xamarin/mac#installing-objective-sharpie), 
the tool used to generate bindings definitions from the .h and .m files
created by Xcode.
- Configure your system to use Xcode 10 Command Line Tools:
    - WARNING: Updating the selected Command Line Tools impacts all 
    installed versions of Xcode on your system. When you are done using the 
    Soup Chef sample app, be sure to revert this setting to its original
    configuration.
    - In Xcode, choose **Xcode > Preferences > Locations** and set
    **Command Line Tools** to the most current Xcode 10 installation
    available on your system.
- In the terminal, `cd` to the **OrderSoupIntentStaticLib** directory.
- Type `make`, which builds:
    - The static library, **libOrderSoupIntentStaticLib.a** 
    - In the **bo** output directory, C# bindings definitions:
        - **ApiDefinitions.cs**
        - **StructsAndEnums.cs**

The **OrderSoupIntentBindings** project, which relies on this static library
and its associated bindings definitions, builds these items automatically.
However, manually running through the above process will ensure that the
static library and bindings definitions build as expected.

Running the app on simulator or device
-------

It can be helpful when working with Siri Shortcuts to enable two settings
on your iOS device or simulator:

- In the **Settings** app, enable **Developer > Display Recent Shortcuts**.
- In the **Settings** app, enable  **Developer > Display Donations on Lock Screen**.

These settings will surface recently created shortcuts on the lock screen
and in the search results (accessible by swiping down on the iOS home
screen).

Running on simulator
-------

This app works on the simulator. On the **Hardware** menu of macOS
**Simulator** application (the iOS simulator), select **Siri** to invoke
Siri, and issue commands with your voice just as you would with a
physical device. If you run the app on simulator, you will not need
to to through the provisioning steps described below in the
**Running on device** section.

Running on device
-------

To run this application on a device, you'll need to set up an App Group,
some App IDs, and some development provisioning profiles; make a few edits
to **Info.plist**, **Entitlements.plist**, and one source code file; and
configure the build settings for each project to use the correct
provisioning profiles.

Please also see the [note about automatic provisioning](#automatic-provisioning),
below.

**App Group, App IDs, Provisioning Profiles**

In the **Certificates, IDs & Profiles** section of the 
[Apple Developer Portal](https://developer.apple.com/), do the following:

- Create an App Group to share data between the SoupChef app and its
extensions. For example: **group.com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef**

- Create three App IDs: one for the app itself, one for the Intents 
Extension, and one for the Intents UI Extension. For example:

    - App: **com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef**
        - To this App ID, assign the SiriKit and **App Groups**
        capabilities.

    - Intents extension: **com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef.Intents**
        - To this App ID, assign the **App Groups** capability.

    - Intents UI extension: **com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef.Intentsui**
        - This App ID needs no special capabilities.

- After creating the the above App IDs, edit the **App Groups** capability
assigned to the app and the Intents extension, specifying the specific
App Group created above.

- Create three new development provisioning profiles, one for each of the
new App IDs.

- Download these provisioning profiles and double-click each one to install
it. If Visual Studio for Mac or Visual Studio 2017 is already running,
restart it to make sure it registers the new provisioning profiles.

**Editing Info.plist, Entitlements.plist, and source code**

In Visual Studio for Mac or Visual Studio 2017, do the following:

- Update the various **Info.plist** files in the solution. Set the app,
Intents Extension, and Intents UI extension **Bundle Identifier** to the App
IDs defined above:

    - App: **com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef**
    - Intents Extension: **com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef.Intents**
    - Intents UI Extension: **com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef.Intentsui**

- Update the **Entitlements.plist** file for the **SoupChef** project:
    - For the **App Groups** capability, set the group to the new App Group 
    created above (in the example above, it was **group.com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef**).
    - Make sure that **SiriKit** is enabled.

- Update the **Entitlements.plist** file for the **SoupChefIntents** project:
    - For the **App Groups** capability, set the group to the new App Group 
    created above (in the example above, it was **group.com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef**).

- Finally, open **NSUserDefaultsHelper.cs**. Set the `AppGroup` variable
to the value of your new App Group (for example, set it to 
`group.com.yourcompanyname.SoupChef`).

**Configuring the build settings**

In Visual Studio for Mac or Visual Studio 2017:

- Open the options/properties for the **SoupChef** project. On the 
**iOS Bundle Signing** tab, set **Signing Identity** to automatic and
**Provisioning Profile** to the new app-specific provisioning profile you
created above.

- Open the options/properties for the **SoupChefIntents** project. On the 
**iOS Bundle Signing** tab, set **Signing Identity** to automatic and
**Provisioning Profile** to the new intents project-specific provisioning 
profile you created above.

- Open the options/properties for the **SoupChefIntentsUI** project. On the 
**iOS Bundle Signing** tab, set **Signing Identity** to automatic and
**Provisioning Profile** to the new intents UI-specific provisioning profile 
you created above.

With these changes in place, the app will run on an iOS device.

**Automatic provisioning**

Note that you can use [automatic provisioning](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/xamarin/ios/get-started/installation/device-provisioning/automatic-provisioning)
to accomplish many of these provisioning tasks directly in the IDE.
However, automatic provisioning does not set up App Groups. You will need
to manually configure the **Entitlements.plist** files with the name of
the App Group you would like to use, visit the Apple Developer Portal to
create the App Group, assign that App Group to each App ID created by
automatic provisioning, regenerate the provisioning profiles (app, Intents
Extension, Intents UI Extension) to include the newly created App Group,
and download and install them.

**Notes**

- The **OrderDetail.storyboard** file makes use of secondary views, which
Xamarin's iOS Designer cannot edit. To edit these, use Xcode's Interface
Builder.
- After telling Siri to make a soup order or tapping a shortcut in a 
search result or on the lock screen, there can be a long lag before the 
user interface appears. This appears to be consistent with the Swift-based
app.
- The application console occasionally shows an errors such as:
"Using kCFPreferencesAnyUser with a container is only allowed for 
System Containers, detaching from cfprefsd". This seems to be innocuous.
- The application console occasionally indicates "Unable to find cacheable 
object with identifier intents-remote-image-proxy." This is consistent
with the Swift-based app.

**Known Issues (TO FIX)**

- After successfully completing an order made via voice, Siri does not 
report back the success message defined by the **Intents.intentdefinition**
file. 
- There is a persistent warning in the application console: "Warning:
observer object was not disposed manually with Dispose()"

License
-------
Xamarin port changes are released under the MIT license.

Author
-------
Ported to Xamarin.iOS by Brad Umbaugh

